Hey. This video is about a kind of interesting
linguistic and cultural factoid about the
Japanese language, maybe especially interesting
if you're vegetarian or vegan, but useful
for anyone who is studying Japanese these
days. Just since the year 2006 a unique meaning
has been assigned to "Herbivore" in Japanese,
and, for me, studying the language, it was
quite unexpected. The phrase in Japanese here
is, "Herbivore Man". And if you look at the
words that make up the phrase there's no trickery,
there's nothing vague or poetic, there's no
double entendre there, it's very literally
"plant-food male person", "Herbivore Man".
But just recently, just since the year 2006,
two related terms have emerged in Japanese
that have a kind of dynamic commentary on
how gender-roles are changing. "Herbivore
Man" and "Carnivore Woman". Now the root idea
here… at first I assumed that it was used
in an insulting way, that it was used to denigrate
or insult men… to say that a man was a "Herbivore
Man" was to say that he was not behaving like
a carnivore, not meaning eating meat, but
that he was failing to act like a hunter,
especially with the idea being that pursuing
women, trying to start relationships with
women or have many girlfriends, or what-have-you,
was a "carnivorous" behavior (initiating relationships).
But, interestingly there too, the idea of
being a herbivore, it's not that you're failing
to sleep around, it's not that you're failing
to be a Lothario (女たらし)… I'm trying
to find polite ways to say this in English…
interestingly, the idea of the herbivore man
is that he's avoiding the attention of women
who are pursuing him (so there are women who
would like to make a husband out of him),
but he's a guy who is not interested in getting
married, or even having a girlfriend. It's
a bit complex, it's not just that he's avoiding
commitment, it's not just that he doesn't
like women…I guess you could say in English,
it's that he's "opted out of the rat race".
He's not competing to get as much money as
possible, he's not competing to have as many
girlfriends as possible, and he's not competing
to get married and start a family, either.
But again, interestingly, it's not used in
a way that's directly insulting to the man,
because still there's the idea that this guy
is desirable, that there are women interested
in him, but he's failing to play the game.
So that's interesting: as a cultural concept
I've never seen that combination of values
in any other language. And now, by contrast,
"Carnivore Woman", here the idea is that the
woman is playing the role of the hunter, of
the lion, of the carnivore, and this idea,
again, has nothing to do with diet, with what
you're eating --that the woman is initiating,
that she is seeking a husband, and perhaps
that she is "in the rat race" in a competitive
sense. And, in this case, it always is denigrating
and insulting, because for a woman to display
these behaviors in Japanese society is considered
snobbish, greedy and inappropriate for their
gender-role. So, again, it reflects a lot
of really odd things about how language, culture,
gender roles, etc., are changing in the 21st
century. And despite the fact that it has
the words "herbivore" and "carnivore" involved,
it has absolutely nothing to do with vegetarianism
and veganism.